362 SCALmER, VINET‚ AND Tm: TEXT or Ausomus

less consciously in his own edition; it may well have been the sight of
Vinet’s text that spurred him to turn his attention to Ausonius. To believe
the reverse of this, that Vinet took them from Scaliger, would be very
difficult. The problem would be not that Vinet always acknowledges his
sources, as frequently declared by Mirmont; there is no clear evidence to
the contrary, but his claim can only be checked in about three cases. It
would be that it is virtually incredible that the much slower Vinet should
have suddenly galvanised himself into action or thrown aside his distrac-
tions, and taken over what Scaliger had just published. And why restrict
himself to such a small proportion?

If nothing else, Ι hope that my analysis has shown that the whole affair
is in fact a storm in a teacup. 1 do not mean that the matter of principle
thought to be involved is a trivial one: the misappropriation of another
scholar’s work is rightly regarded as a serious matter. Ι mean that the
emendations concerned were not such as to be worth fighting over. It is
clear that Mirmont greatly exaggerated the situation, influenced no doubt
by the stressful times in which he lived. So did a recent reviewer of
Grafton who, though underestimating the amount of common material,
wrongly described Grafton's charge against Scaliger as one of “conscious
theft.’'¹⁵ The episode that we have just examined is a classic case of
much heat and no light. If modern scholars had looked at the problem
with the same dispassionate consideration that Scaliger and Vinet seem to
have used, this unnecessary controversy might never have arisen.

St. Andoews

¹⁵ H. D.Jocelyn, in Liverpool Classical Monthly, vol. 9, no. 4 (April 1984), 129-30.

