STELLA P. REVARD 605

Knife had done but well” (6). There, however, the resemblance between
Alciati's emblem and Cowley’s emblematical swallow ends.

Cowley’s swallow is an equivocal figure. She is both the foolish talker of
the emblem tradition and the bird which, having wintered in the south,
brings back the spring. Cowley has combined in his anacreontic the two
swallow poems of the anacreontea—Estienne’s no. 12 and no. 33. In the
first the swallow’s early morning singing drives away the dream of the
beloved; in the second the swallow is asked why she builds her nest in the
spring and deserts it to fly south in the fall, while Love is forever building
and unbuilding his nest in the lover’s heart. Cowley has retained only the
essentia] elements from both poems; he banishes all reference to love. He
has used the poem, moreover, as the final anacreontic in his collection.
He doubles at the end “The Grasshopper,” the king over all, whose happy
song brings joy and hope for retirement and rest, with “The Swallow,'’ the
harbinger of farewell, whose foolish prating drives away his dream, a
dream not identified with the beloved, but with some unequalled joy, now
never to be attained. This bitter-sweet song is a curious conclusion to a
sequence that begins with a trio of lyrics celebrating the cavalier plea-
sures-Love, Beauty, and Drinking, and whose dominant figure is the old
ever-green epicure Anacreon, tallying up his loves and enjoying in the
shade of the myrtle tree the days of wine and rose. The anacreontea‚
however, had often been both in England and France the kind of verse
that belonged to the courtly poet and that celebrated the courtly way of
life. Secundus, Ronsard, Baif on the continent and Sidney, Spenser,
Jonson, Herrick‚ Lovelace, Stanley, and Cowley himself in England had
pleaded the case of king and court. Τὴε last ssowen'ng of the anacreontea
came in England just at the time of the English Civil War, when the
celebration of love, wine, and merriment was at best nostalgic. Cowley, a
royalist supportes, had spent much of the 1640s in exile; on his return to
England in the 1650s he might well have felt that the Puritan, like the
foolish prating swallow‚ had interrupted his royalist dream. Such a mood
might well explain the melancholy close to his jovial collection.

Although Cowley did not publish his anacreontics until 1656, many may
have been written earlier. His interest in the Greek anacreontea went back
to his university days; adaptations of two anacreontea appear as songs in
Love’s Riddle (London, 1638), a pastoral drama written when he was a
student. The anacreontics that he published in 1656 are mature pieces,
carefully chosen, polished, and arranged in a well-ordered sequence.
Cowley is one of the few poets who produced a collection of anacreontea
that is neither a full sequence nor a mere random sampling. His collection
demonstrates, moreover, that he was a master not only of the Greek

